Course FAQ (please read before messaging me)
FAQ



1. How do I get my CPD certificate?

Please send an email to certificate@nutritionandfitness.net (if that email doesn't work you can also use nutritionandfitnesscertificate@gmail.com) with:

1. The name of the course you completed

2. A screenshot of your dashboard showing that you completed the course

3. The name you want on the certificate



2. Your email address doesn't work, do you have a different one?

Sometimes certificate@nutritionandfitness.net doesn't seem to work. You can also use nutritionandfitnesscertificate@gmail.com



3. How long will it take to receive my certificate?

We get a lot of certificate requests and it usually takes 5 - 7 days for the certificate to be sent to you. Please also check your spam folder, sometimes our emails get stuck in there.



4. It has been more than 7 days and I have not received my certificate. What should I do?

First, please check your spam folder. Your certificate is probably stuck there. If it isn’t please message me and I will look into it.



5. What is CPD?

It stands for "Continuing Professional Development" and the CPD Group accredits courses and workshops that develop and enhance your professional abilities (more info here: https://cpduk.co.uk/explained).



6. Where can I verify the course accreditation?

All my courses are listed in the CPD register, which you can find here: https://thecpdregister.com/view/nutrition-and-fitness-776938



7. Can I coach others after taking the course?

The certificate is valid worldwide and you can coach others and call yourself "diet coach".

You have to be careful with the term "nutritionist", though. It is regulated in many countries and often requires a college education (check what applies in your country).

If you want to work in a gym it's usually best to ask them what type of certifications they accept.



8. Where can I find the resources you mentioned?

I always add a lecture called resources at the beginning or the end of the course. Attached to it you will find all the downloadable PDFs and eBooks.



9. I can't download the resources. What should I do?

Please try to download the resources from your computer. Phone downloads don't seem to work. If that doesn't work either, reach out to the Udemy tech support.



Happy Learning!

