Good diet plan is based on the following factos
	1. Calories
	2. MacroNutrients
	3. Foods
	4. Meal timing
	5. Supplements

1. Calulate the claorie intake
	for fat-loss we need have less then 10 -20 % more calories for maintaince.
	For muscle gain we need 10 % more calroie than maintaince.
2. MacroNutrients
	Protein,carbs,fat
	protien provides structure to body
	carbs and fats are energy to body
	
	Based on client lifestyle we need to adjust the food plan
	Protein:
		For body builders they need 2 gm of protein per kg of body weight
		for normal people 1 gm of protein per kg is enough
	Fat:
	        We need 10 - 20% of fat of calories need
	Carbs:
		If client doesn't workout then no calories are needed.
		If client does workout then he need more calories. as 1 - 3 gm of protein per kg
	
3. Foods:
	Resevere 80 to 90% of their calorie needs through nutrition food, Make a list of food they like and use them
	to fill their daily protein, fat and carb intakes
	remaining 20 - 10 % with their fav foods 
4. Meal frequency:
	We need to diesgin the meal frequency based on their schedule. Also try to give a bigger meal based on their
	hunger level and timings
5. Supplements:
	Supplements are divied into two , Fitness supllements and Health supplements
	FItness supplements: linked to fat loss or muscle growth
	health supplements : linked towards overall health and well-being

	These should be suggested on their blood reports


Body mass index is the measurment of human body ideal weight as per his height

We need to be in Negative Calorie defict for loosing weight.
How to find how many calories we need measured by TDEE(Total daily Energy Expenditure) 
	We have online calculators once we get the TDEE value
		Take food based on calories need
		Check the weight twice a week
		find calorie where weight doesn't change
			
			
	
	Protein:
		Eggs are good protein source -- 5 gms of protein and 70 calotries, Egg white is protein and water and Yolk is with vitamin A,D,K and E
		Lean beef and cheicken are good protein source -- Beef is a great source of zinc,iron and vitamin B12.
		Tuna(a kind of sea fish) are good sources of protein
		
		Kideny beans are very good sources of protein and fiber content. They are calicum rich food
		Panner has 18gms of protein per 100gms
	Carbs:
		Vegetables are the best sources of good carbs, also high in fiber which slows down our digestion
			Brocoli
			califlower
			cabbage
		Whole grains(oats, whole grain pasta,Brown rice,Quinoa(ariklu,ragulu,sajjalu)) are another best sources of good carbs, they are also rich in fiber 
		
		Fruits(are rich in fructose(glucose) if we feel of eating sweet choose fruits instead). These are digested slowly due to high fiber in them.
		
	Fats: Fats are high in calories as 1 gm fat is 9 calories , so we need to limit our fat intake
		Vegetables oils, ghee, butter
		
		



Diet Breaks typeS: There is no specific break time , We need to think about how our body acts accordingly need to take a break.
					day break, week break
				  Dieting = more stress and high coristol levels in blood
				  If we break diet our coristol levels will become low and stress levels will go back to normal
				  
				  Break will give cyclogical advantage of thinking about next setp.
				  
Ultimate DIet for Bulcking Diet:
	Need to follow these steps for getting any results for our body weightloss,weight gain, muscle gain,fat loss
	1. Calculate our TDEE(total daily Energy expenditure)
	2. Add a certain percentage to your TDEE
	3. Reach this calorie count by eating (mostly) healthy foods
	
	Pre Workout meal should be
		1. We should focus on having carbs and protein as they give energy and amino acids(for muscle forming).
				These should be consumed atlease 30 mins before workouts and should be easily digestable such as
							Protien shake for protein source
							Banana for carbs source
				If we want to eat some slow digestable protien ans carbs then have them before an hour of workout
							1. Chicken breast for protien source , Brown rice and Veggies for carbs source
							2. Oats meal with Whey protein mixutue
							3. Large chicken sandwhich with whole grain bread
							4. scrambled eggs with beans and sliced tomatoes
							5. whole grain pasta with some sort of protien
							6. Apple with a protien bar
						these are few examples of foods, but make sure to have protien and carbs and consume them as per their digestion standards
			
	Post workout meal should be
		1. We should be focus on having carbs and protein as they repair our broken muscles during workout and start the muscle synthesis
				These should be consumed at least after 30 to 1 hour of workout but not more than 3 - 4 hours
					We should consume 0.5 gm/kg of both protien and carbs
					
	Thumb rule for muscle gain is
		1. We should consume TDEE + 20% extra calories to gain weight
		2. We should consume right foods with the right amount of macronutrients
		3. Daily caloriebreakdown should be 40% carbohydrate, 30% protein and 30% fat
				Carbs: Brown rice, whole grain pastas/breads/creals, Sweet potatoes, Quinoa
				Protein: Chicken breast, Fish, Dairy products, Lean beef, Eggs, Beans, lentils
				Fats: Avacados, Vegetable oils, Nuts/Nut butter
				
	Right food for increating testostrone harmone
			Testostrone harmone is the key driver for muscle growth, sex feeling, overall wellbeing in men(for women this is produced in low level)
					1. Sturated fats are good sources, so make sure to have 15 -20% of fat(saturated and unsaturated) in our diet.
					2. Vitamin D is our immunity booster, bone health, mood and testostrone production
								foods: lean beef, liver, cheese, eggs, fish(All these foods can maintain vitamin D level but connot increase, so go for supplementation)
								supplements : if we are vegans and have less exposure to sunlight
					3. Zinc deficiences will increase testostrone hormone, so we need to increase this by taking foods or supplements
							 foods: red meat, sea food, dairy products will increase zinc , pumpkin seeds are also good sources of zinc
					4. Brazil nuts
					5. Avoid Alcohol
					
	Before bed, Protien shakes should be ideal as our body won't store protein. So we need some slow digestion protein source such as whey protein
				for food options use 1. cottage cheese 2. Greek yogart need to have atelease 30 minutes before we go to bed.
				
				
					
					
				  
				  But not break your diet for more than a week
				  
Breaking through Fat loss stucking:
			
			Waist Hip ratio: Mearue your waist and measure your Hip using a tape , waist/hip should be less than 0.9 , if not then we have high fat.
			
			our calorie need should be based on our current weight, while loosing weight we need to reduce our calorie intake too.
			
			We need to keep an eye on the calroies we take from all sources of food we eat such as Proteins,carbs,oils,fats,seeds,salads
			
			Best time to check weight is twice a week once come out of bed.
			
			
Prolonged dieting slows down metabolism


	