Dieting and Nutrition Principles
1. Calorie Balance (=How much you eat)
2. MacroNutrient Amounts (=what you eat --> Protein + carbs + fats)
3. Nutrient Timings (=when you eat)
4. Food composition
5. Supplements

Calories :

	Food we eat are measured in the form of calories, Which are the energy indicators. The more calories we take more energy we get.
	If we don't consume the energy then our Calories will be converted into fat and is stored on muscle, liver for later use by ketogenclysis and the rest is stored as body fat.

	We need to balance our calories as per for need. They are basic building block of muscle tissues.

MacroNutrients: Protein, Carbohydrates and Dietary fat are the 3 nutirents which our body needs for functioning and they are needed in larger quantities.
		Protein:Protien and amino acids are the building blocks of our body. 1 gm of protien = 4 calories.
		Carbohydrates: They are main sources of enegy for our body. 1 gm of carbs = 4 calories.
		Dietary fats: They are essential for Harmone production and Vitamin absorbstion and brain fuction. 1 gm of fat = 9 calories
						Fats are of 3 types: Staturated fat
											 un staturated fats
											 trnas fats
											 
		Protein(explained in detail)
			This is formed by amino acids (there two types of amino acids esssential/non essential amnio acids). These amino acids help is muscle building.
			This helps in 1. Antibodies production
						  2. Making harmoes and enzymes
						  3. Digestion and absorption of food.
						  4. transport of oxygen to tissues
						  5. structure of muscles, tendons, organs, bones, hair & skin
						  6. Protein builds new muscle and saves exising muscle.
			When we take protien , 90% is broken into amino acids and 10% are used in digestion proceses.
			essential a acids cannot be produced by our body and it needs to be get from the food. These are important in muscle building.
			Non essential amino acids can be procuded by exising amino acids by resuing them.
			
			Maintaining ideal weight: Need to take 1 gm of protien per kg of body weight
			Muscle building and fat loss : need to take 1.5 to 2 gms of protein per kg weight
		Dietary fats(explained in detail)
			These produces essential fatty acids for our survival
			Regulates harmone production, keeps skin and hair healthy
			Helps vitamin A,D,K and E absorption(Fat soluble vitamins)
			Fat cells keep us warm
			
			Fats are of mainly two types 1. Saturated fats 2. unstaturated fats.
				1. Staturated fats: These are bad fats and increases LDL levels and causes hearth diseases. THese are produded from animal sources.
				2. unstaturated fats: these are from plant based.
				3. Trans fats: these are formed by infusing hydrogen to vegetable oils, these will make food to stay for more time
				
			To healthy body we need 0.7 grams of fat for 1 kg of fat free body(Muscle,water,bone). 
			So 15-20% of total calories per day we need from FAT.
			So prefer Mono& poly unsaturated fats over saturated fat. Avoid trans fat.
			Suppose if we are filled up needed protein,carbs and fats still we are calorie deficient as per our daily need, Prefer to increase FAT due to following reasons.
				1. Health Benefits: Mono unstaurated fats are good for health such as olive,Avacado, Seed oils, Nuts. 
				2. These taste better
				3. 1 gm of fat = 9 calories, but cards and protien has only 4 calories
				4. Cheap in rate.
		Carbohydrates (explained in detail)
			Carbohydrates are the union of Sugar moluces (Carbon+hydrogen+oxygen)
			1. Hight carbs are broken into glucose
			2. Glucose will be transported throughout the body to provide energy.
			3. Excess glucose is stored in liver and muscles as glycogen or as fat.
			
			When we go for high intense workouts our body uses Glycogen and converts it back to glucose for new fuel.
			Suppiles fule to nurveos system
			Secrets insluin
			
			DIfferent types of Carbs:
				1. Monosaccharides : one sugar molecule (Gulcose,galactose,fructose)
				2. Disaccharides : two sugar molecule (surcose, lactose,maltose)
				3. polysaccharides: several sugar molecules (pasta,potatoses,grains, fiber)
				
					simple carbs : mono and disaccharides
					complex carbs : polysaccharides
					
			Glycemic Index: This is the measurment of how quickly carbs are converted to glucose
			so, foods which digest quickly will have High GI and foods which digest slowely have less GI.
			
				Low GI foos ( 55 or less) : non starchy Vegetables,oat meal,sweet potatoses,corn,peas
				Medium ( 56 -69) : Whole wheat, rice, Quick Oats,
				High (70 or above) : Whilte bread, corn flakes, puffed rice, pumpkin, popcorn, pineapple
				
				Whole, unprocessed carbs are Good carbs and processed carbs are bad carbs
				
				If we need to be fat then taking surplus calorie by taking high protein or high fat diet.
				
				In simple, If we are working hard then we need to take carbs from quility sources along with protien and fat
						   if we are not working then taking less carbs from quality sources along with protien and fat.
						   
						   
		When to Eat these Macro Nutrients:
			Protein: Protein is formed from amino acids whcih basically helps to keepup our muscles, 

			
		

