1. Gulten free diet:
		Gulten is naturally occuring composite of two protiens (gliadin and Glutenin) found in rye, wheat, barely products
		Gulten makes baked food products more elastic found in pizza dough, pasta, crackers etc
		Gulten cannot be broken by eat or directly digested, these will go to our GUT and may create autoimmue diseases, diarreha, bloating, gut issues and 
			this occurs to only people with celiac disease, which only 0.2% population have
		So Gulten free food is not good for every one as it will be less nutritious, lower in protein, higer in fat, cost more or double
		It will help in weight loss but it is unhealthy
2. Paleo diet:
		This diet is just eating what out cave man ate such as Frutis,veggies,meats,seafood and nuts 
		by avoiding Porcessed foods, dairy products, potatoes and grains
			(Cave has very less food and now we have enough food so not sure about the result)
		This is rich of protein with lean meat,seafood whcih helps in muscle building and mainting muscle mass
		Veggies and Fruits are rich in fiber, vitamins and rich in nutrition
		
		Avoids processed foods, trans fat.
		
		Problem with this is :
				Whole grains are banned
				Dairy products are banned
				some legumes are banned
		
3. Low carb diet:
		Reduce the carbs intake and intake the protein and fat.
		Carbs are non essential MacroNutrients --> there is nothing wrong with low carb diet.
		This is not good for people who regularly workout 
		Weight loss for sadiratory lifestyle people who workout less this is good diet

4. Intermediate Fasting:
		Perfrom fasting intentionally by increasing the fasting time to 16 hours per day from normal 11 hours per day.
		Increasing fasting benefits in increasing testistrone hormone.
		This diet suits for people who doesn't have a discipline to eat 5 to 6 time per day.
		In IF we need to keep an eye How much macros and micro nutrients we eat.
		Who has trouble in maintaing a proper calorie intake they can go for IF
5. Vegan diet:
		Vegan is all about eating veg based food for all their body nutrient needs.
		Carbs and fat remain the same as other diets but the only issue is with protien intake
		Major problem is protein is very difficult to get mucsle as we have less option in vegan(pules,grain,beans,nuts)
		As a replacements vegans need to include low protein vigges with essential amnio acids(like peanut, hen protein)
		Protein sources for vegans are :
				Wheat,rice,oats,peas,beans,potato,almonds,peanuts,walnuts,Quinoa and buckwheat
		Micro nutrients(vitamins and Minerals)
				Vegans face deficiencies of vitamin D3,B12,iron,calcium,zinc and omega 3 fatty acids
				We can these from veggies too but we need to take in large quntities as this practically immpossible

		Bottom line: We should micromanage our diet as to full fill all our micro and macro nutrients
6. Ketogenic Diet:
		Ketogenic diet is High fat, low carb and moderate protein diet.
		Ketosis is the process of forcing the body to use fat rather than carbs for body functions
			If enough carbs are not in our diet liver converts fat into fatty acids and ketone bodies
			kenote will just act as glucose
			to reach ketosis stage we need to consume less than 50 gms of carbs per day sometimes less than 30 gms
			Fruits as Blue berry , balck berries, straw berries/
		What should we eat in Keto diet:
			Eat unsaturated and staturated fat food sources as they are rich in calories such as olive oil,	grass fed butter, avacods,cocount oil
				nuts or seeds
			These prevent hunger pranks, weakness and fatigue
			Non starchy veggies as Brocoli,cauliflower, green leafy veggies,cucumber these are low on calories and good for weight loss
			High protein foods such as lean meat,fatty fish,eggs
		What should we avoid in keto diet:
			Avoid junk food
			Avoid trans food and high in sugar foods such as juices, soft drinks,fruits with high sugar
	
		Bottom line: We need to try ourselves and if we seeing good results we can try, if not we need to change the diet accordingly.

Althelts diet:
	Strength training:
		If we are doing weightlifting, body building ,sprtining,javilen trow, high jump then we each needs high energy food in less time 
		So, we need to take surplus calorie intake and high protein food as 2 gm per kg weight
	Endruance training:
		Marathons, cycling, are some the sports with lot of time consuming. Here we need to give constant enery to body and mostly the energy is 
		taken from fat or by breaking down amino acids from muscle tissues.
		So they need to take as much dietary fat as needed to balance total energy intake after removing carbs and proteins
		Also need to take carbs high as 10 gms per kg diet to be taken for muscle glycogen and high protien as 2 gm per kag
	Ball games:
		Soccer, tennis,cricket,  other ball games will get some rest between the games so it needs less carbs
		if our body uses carbs without oxygen then it produces lactic acid which produces buring senstation
		High carbs as 8 - 10 gms per kg of carbs
		moderate protien as 1 to 1.5 gms of protein
		calorie balance depends on how much our body needs


			
			


		

