Unit 1:
	1. Food is therfore a complex mixture of different nutrients and non-nutirents.
	2. There are 40 essential nutrients which are supplied by the food we eat.
	3. These 40 essential nutrients are classified into 5 catogeries
		a. Proteins
		b. Carbohydrates
		c. fats
		d. Vitamins
		e. Minerals
	4. Functions of body
		1. Socail
		2. Physiological
			i. Energy giving
					Fats are Carbohydrates are considered as body fuels
			ii. Body building
					Our body is made of cells, These growth is only heppens through protein. With good for infants 
					helps in height and weight through process of growth.
			iii. Protection
					Vitamins, Minerals,water and Protien protects us from all infections enters our body
			iv. Regulation
					Vitamins, Minerals,water and Protien helps in regulating the functions like heart beath, blood flow 
					speed, body temperature etc
		3. Psychological
	
	Excersie 1
		1. Three functions of food
				Social
				Physiological
				Psychological
		2. Fill in the blanks
				a) Protein
				b) Fats
				c) Protection and Regulation functions
		3. a) This is socail as pankaj mother has invited pankaj friends and served pankaj favorite food
		   b) This is Psychological as her mother loves and by her caring and serving good food made her to think.
		   
	What is Nutrition:
		It is a sicentific declipline with food as the major focus of interest.
		FOod contains nutrients, It has many forms. Few need in larger quntities (macro nutrients) and few need in
		lesser quntity(micro nutrients)
		
		Nutrients helps in eergy supply, Protection against disease, maintaince of Growth, Body process.
		ex: Calicum and Phospures helps in bone and Teeth growth
			Good health is Carbohydrates, Proteins, Fats, Vitamins, Minerals, water
		
		Not all food we eat is good for our body, the un absorbed nutrients will be thrown out of the body through urine
		
		We understand each person food habits based on their culture, place they live as this will effect the food 
		
	Excersie 2:
		1.  4 aspects of nutrition
			Social
			culture
			Psychological
			Econmic
		2. a. in correct quntity and proptions
		   b. Digestion
		   c. Psychological
		   
		   
	Health
		Physcial
		Mental
		Social
		Spritiual
		
	Excersie 3:
		1. Health is a state of complete physcial, mental, social well being and not merge absense of disease.
		2. Physcial
			Mental
			Social
			Spritiual
		3. No he is not healthy as he is not phycially fit .
	
	
	Nutrional Status:
		It is a state of
		
	Excersie 4: 
		1. Good food gives all nurtients to our body for its normal functioning, 
		
		
UNIT 2:
	The MacroNutrient-1: Carbohydrates and Water
	
	There are around 40 essential nutrients which are grouped into 5 catogeries
			Proteins
			Fats
			Vitamins
			Minerals
			Water (is both macro and Micro nutrient)
			
	Food will be processed in the body as follows
		
		Mouth --> Oesophagus(Tube from mouth to stomach) --> Stoamch --> Small intestine --> Large intestnine -->
		Rectum --> Anus(Waste outlet)
		
		Liver and Pancreas produces bile juice for food digestion and absorbtion
		
		Mouth (Food chewed and mixed with saliva)
		Stoamch : Food mixes with Degestive jucie called gastric juice (contains small amount of acid called 
					Hydrochorlic acid) which is acidic in nature. Food gets coverted into soup. This gastric acid also
					contais an enzyme(pepsine) which acts on protein .  Other nutrients remain unchanged chemically.
		Small intestine: This soup will enter the small intestine where it will have have instestinal juice produced by	
					instestine and also bile juice produced by liver and pancreatic juice produced by our pancreases.
					These juices has enzymes to break fats, proteins into amino acids and carbs into simpler molecules(gulcose) for entering into 
					blood stream
		large intestine: The unabsorbed food will reach here along with water and most of the water will be absorbed
						  here, let out water and solid waste will be eliminated from the body
	
	
	Utilization of Food:
		Metabolism: All the chemical changes takes place in the cells after the end products are absorded. which is of two
					types 
					Anabolism: Simple substances into complicated one
					Catabolism: Complicated ones broken into simple ones
		